We can we can write a flatten method for
box, but it's kind of fold right fold will
remove it from the box,
effectively kind of flattening it.
Maybe instead,
we'll be able to write a function.
Let's call it chain that
allow me to chain boxes.
Now chain is also called flat
map will allow me to flatten and
map in the same step.
With JavaScript convention is to call
this chain because you're chaining
these box operations but you can also
see it in flat map is the same idea.
So let's go ahead and
read chain on box and in that sense,
chain is expecting us
to return another box.
It's gonna expect a box
of a box of a value.
And so we don't wanna fold it up here,
we're just gonna map there.
So let's go right chain.
And I don't know if you've all,
if you're using promise.den,
this is very much like promise.den
except promise.den will auto-flatten for
you whereas chain does not or you have to
decide whether you wanna map or chain.
With promises, you just called in all the
time and if its nested, it flattens it for
you, if its not, it doesn't.
We like to stay mathematical and
deterministic and
we don't wanna do different
things under the hood.
We wanna provide a strictly more
powerful API and give you both options.
So let's create chain, chain is fun.
It's in this case is exactly fold.
[LAUGH] The reason for that is,
I'm just not gonna put it back in the box.
I'm expecting this to return me a box.
And I know that fold removes it from
a box and chain has a different,
it's the same implementation with
a different kind of argument contract.
We'll see this as we swap out
the different instances of functors and
monads.
That these two start to diverge and
become different functions, in this case,
it's the same.
So that's what we did, if you look at it.
We saw a box of four, right?
So why don't we just at the end folded
out, just take [LAUGH] The value.
There we go.
So there's all this different ways
to manipulate this and write this.
I think what we are trying to learn
today in the second half of the class
is just dealing with working with
computations in these containers.
There's different API's for them to kind
of combine them and pull them out and
nest them and,
swap their orders and whatnot.
And this is what we're gonna be
dealing with, a lot of this crap.
[LAUGH] But
we'll see the benefits here in a minute.
So did anybody have any questions over?
So we just defined monads right
then in there, boom, flatten.
So, ask me questions.
What are you thinking right now?
Are you tripped up on any of this?
So.
>> The thing that sold me on our last
example was the,
you've probably got five eight options for
handling price and discount and
injecting them into the container,
which you'll eventually like
build that chain composition.
There's a fair number of minimum forms for
that.
>> Totally right.
>> And that was a sticking point for
me as I was trying to think through it.
>> Yeah, which ones would be the best and
that's we get back to the beginning like,
okay, we have function equivalences.
We can turn this into a function
that takes a pair and
we could process them as a pair.
We could do this boxed stuff.
All this though is their equivalence and
knowing that their equivalent provides
you like here's all my options and
I know that I can end up at the same spot.
So I see that's a tripping
point as well a kind of
a value add to know the equivalences.
But yeah, these functions,
running inside the box and
then nesting you can see here.
We're just using the closure to continue.
So if you're thinking your box
is saying I'm gonna establish
a context and
that context has this variable.
And then I'm gonna establish a new context
and that context has this variable.
And now we're in a box and
working with both variables.
You can kind of, we're not trapping
them in those little closures as we go.
We're keeping them in a little
bit of bigger closure.
Incidentally, if you're
working with promises,
I always reach .then until
the situation happens.
And then you look for a sync to it, right?
Because then you have multiple
variables all playing together and
you wanna keep in indenting.
It turns out that situation doesn't
happen all that often though, so.